# AI-based-attendance-system
Face detection is used to locate the position of the face region and QR code is used  for marking the understudy’s  attendance 
In this  project, I’m  using the  technique  of utilization of face detection, recognition  and use of QR code framework  to  continuously  recognize students going  to class or  not and marking  their attendance by comparing their faces with a database to match and use of QR code for  marking attendance. This facial biometric framework takes a picture of a person using a camera and contrasts that  image and compares  the image with the image which is stored at the time of enrolment and use of QR code to scan at the time of marking the attendance if  it matches and QR code is scanned, marks  the attendance and  monitors the  student performance  continuously.
At present the attendance marking system involves manual attendance on paper sheets by professors and teachers but it is a very time consuming process and chances of proxy is also one problem that arises in such type of attendance marking. To overcome the problems our proposed system shall be an AI Based Attendance System which uses a basic idea of image processing which is used in many secure applications like banks, airports, etc,.
System will allow authenticated users to login to the system and/or make changes to it. It will allow users to mark the attendance of the students via face recognition technique. It will detect via webcam and then recognise the faces. After recognition it will mark the attendance of the recognised student and update the attendance record. The user will be able to print these record details afterward.
